= resque-statsd

Resque Statsd is a Resque plugin that will collect and send data samples from your Resque Jobs.  It samples 4 statistics for any Job for which the plugin extends, enqueue count, completion count, failure count, and the time to process.  It will monitor for each specific job, in addition to the totals for all jobs (not including timing stats)

== CURRENT STATUS

Tests on the way, but being used in production already

== Usage

=== Install

	gem install resque-statsd
	gem install jamster-statsd # really jnunemaker's version of the statsd rubygem
	
=== Rails Setup

in an initializer, set up the Statsd 

	touch  config/initializers/resque-statsd.rb
	
in file add code

	ENV['GRAPHITE_HOST'] = 'graphite.YOURHOST.com'
	ENV['APP_NAME'] = 'YOURAPPNAME_resque' # I add the _resque to separate against web stats
	require 'resque-statsd' # Needs to come after the ENV variable setting
	
== Background Reading

=== Graphite

http://graphite.wikidot.com/

=== StatsD Comes From Etsy

The folks at Etsy (kastner) have come up with a neat node.js app to listen for Graphite stats.  

* http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2010/12/08/track-every-release/
* http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2011/02/15/measure-anything-measure-everything/
* https://github.com/etsy/statsd

=== Ruby StatsD Client

I've required a particular version (jnunemaker's) of the ruby StatsD client  
Read the post here
	
* http://railstips.org/blog/archives/2011/03/21/hi-my-name-is-john/
* A Ruby statsd client (https://github.com/etsy/statsd)

== Contributing to resque-statsd
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Jason Amster. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

